README.md, before:

# company-coq

Company backend for Proof-General's Coq mode. Setup should be pretty straightforward, although the
most advanced features require a patched version of coqtop.

## Features

* Auto-completion of [math symbols](img/tactic-completion-doc.png) (using company-math)

* Auto-completion of theorem names defined in the same buffer, with type annotations.

* Easy access to [Proof-General's templates](img/lemma-completion.png) (using yasnippet), with smart templates for sections and modules.

* Auto-completion of (most of) Coq's [tactics](img/command-completion-doc.png) and
  [commands](img/symbol-completion-doc.png), with snippets auto-extracted from the manual.

* Fuzzy auto-completion of [module names](img/module-completion.png) in `Import` commands.

* Auto-completion of [identifiers](img/identifiers-completion.png) in proof contexts, and of section and modules names.

* [Documentation](img/keyword-completion-doc.png) for (most) auto-completion entries, with excerpts
  from the manual shown directly in Emacs.

* Interactive [proof script outline](img/outline.png) and [in-buffer folding](img/folding.png)

Advanced features (requires a patched version of `coqtop`):

* Auto-completion of all known [theorem and symbol names](img/symbol-completion-doc.png), with
  [type annotations](img/symbol-completion.png).

## Screenshots

### Autocompletion of tactics with documentation

<img src="img/tactic-completion-doc.png" alt="Autocompletion of tactics with documentation" />

### Autocompletion of commands with documentation

<img src="img/keyword-completion-doc.png" alt="Autocompletion of commands with documentation" />

### Auto insertion of Proof-General's templates

<img src="img/lemma-completion.png" alt="Auto insertion of Proof-General's templates" />

### Fuzzy autocompletion of module names

<img src="img/modules-completion.png" alt="Fuzzy autocompletion of module names" />

### Auto-completion of identifiers

<img src="img/identifiers-completion.png" alt="Auto-completion of identifiers" />

### Outline and folding

<img src="img/outline.png" alt="Outline" />
<img src="img/folding.png" alt="Folding" />

### Unicode math symbols

<img src="img/math-completion.png" alt="Unicode math symbols" />

### Autocompletion of symbol names (w/ patched `coqtop`, see notes)

<img src="img/symbol-completion.png" alt="Autocompletion of symbol names" />

(notice the help string in the mini-buffer)

<img src="img/symbol-completion-doc.png" alt="Autocompletion of symbol names with type annotations" />

## Setup

Note: You need a version of Emacs >= 24 for this to work properly. You can check which version you are running with <kbd>M-x emacs-version RET</kbd>

### `Coq`

```bash
sudo apt-get install coq
```

### `Proof-General`

```bash
sudo apt-get install proof-general
```

(or [from source](http://proofgeneral.inf.ed.ac.uk/releases/ProofGeneral-4.2.tgz))

### `company-coq`

```elisp
M-x package-install RET company-coq RET
```

<small>
Note that `company-coq` is on [MELPA](http://melpa.org/#/getting-started). If you don't have it, add the following to your `.emacs` and reload it before running the commands above:

```elisp
(require 'package)
(add-to-list 'package-archives '("melpa" . "http://melpa.org/packages/") t)
(package-initialize)
```
</small>

Compiling the dependencies of `company-coq` will produce a few warnings. That's ok.

## Configuration

Add the following to your `.emacs`

```elisp
(package-initialize)

;; Open .v files with Proof-General's coq-mode
(require 'proof-site)

;; Load company-coq when opening Coq files
(add-hook 'coq-mode-hook #'company-coq-initialize)
```

## Quick start guide

`company-coq` should be pretty transparent. Completion windows will pop up when `company-coq` has suggestions to make. By default, this would be when you start writing a tactic name or a command. You can also launch manual completion by using <kbd>C-RET</kbd> (or whatever was originally assigned to `proof-script-complete` in Coq mode).

Once auto-completion has started, the following key bindings are available:

* <kbd>RET</kbd> selects a completion
* <kbd>C-g</kbd> interrupts completion.
* <kbd>C-h</kbd> and <kbd>&lt;f1></kbd> display documentation for the currently highlighted keyword or identifier.
* <kbd>C-M-v</kbd> scrolls down in the documentation window.
* <kbd>C-w</kbd> opens the relevant section of the documentation, scrolling to the part about the currently highlighted keyword or identifier. Using <kbd>C-w</kbd> allows you scroll up (<kbd>C-M-S-v</kbd>) in the documentation window to see more context.

You can customize these keybindings by editing `company-active-map`.

Selecting a completion generally often a snippet with holes at the current point (`company-coq` uses `yasnippet` as the snippet backend). You can move between holes by using <kbd>&lt;tab></kbd> and <kbd>S-&lt;tab></kbd>.

Loading `company-coq` also binds the following keys:

* <kbd>C-c C-/</kbd> folds the current code block, or all blocs in the file if repeated.
* <kbd>C-c C-\\</kbd> unfolds the current code block, or all blocs in the file if repeated.
* <kbd>C-c C-,</kbd> opens an outline of the code in a separate buffer (using `occur`).

## Advanced topics

### Autocompleting symbols

The procedure above will give you auto-completion and documentation for tactics, commands, and theorems that you define locally, but not for theorem names and symbols defined in the libraries you load. To get the latter, add the following to your `.emacs`, before `(company-coq-initialize)`:

```elisp
(setq company-coq-autocomplete-symbols-dynamic t)
```

This feature won't work well unless you build and use a patched coq REPL. Users of version 8.4pl2 cal use [this branch](https://github.com/cpitclaudel/coq/tree/V8.4pl2-SearchMinimal); others can apply [this patch](https://github.com/cpitclaudel/company-coq/blob/master/SearchMinimal.patch).

### Disabling some modules

Modules, context and symbols auto-completion can be turned off using the following lines

```elisp
(setq company-coq-autocomplete-modules nil)
(setq company-coq-autocomplete-context nil)
(setq company-coq-autocomplete-symbols nil)
```

### Unloading `company-coq`

`M-x unload-feature RET company-coq RET` should work fine.

### Installing from source

#### `company-coq`

```bash
mkdir -p ~/.emacs.d/lisp/
git clone https://github.com/cpitclaudel/company-coq.git ~/.emacs.d/lisp/company-coq
```

#### Dependencies

```elisp
M-x package-refresh-contents RET
M-x package-install RET company RET
M-x package-install RET company-math RET
M-x package-install RET yasnippet RET
```

### Configuration

```elisp
(add-to-list 'load-path "~/.emacs.d/lisp/ProofGeneral/generic/")
(add-to-list 'load-path "~/.emacs.d/lisp/company-coq/")
(require 'company-coq)
```

Commit message:

general: Add a SearchMinimal patch for trunk

README.md, after:

# company-coq

Company backend for Proof-General's Coq mode. Setup should be pretty straightforward, although the
most advanced features require a patched version of coqtop.

## Features

* Auto-completion of [math symbols](img/tactic-completion-doc.png) (using company-math)

* Auto-completion of theorem names defined in the same buffer, with type annotations.

* Easy access to [Proof-General's templates](img/lemma-completion.png) (using yasnippet), with smart templates for sections and modules.

* Auto-completion of (most of) Coq's [tactics](img/command-completion-doc.png) and
  [commands](img/symbol-completion-doc.png), with snippets auto-extracted from the manual.

* Fuzzy auto-completion of [module names](img/module-completion.png) in `Import` commands.

* Auto-completion of [identifiers](img/identifiers-completion.png) in proof contexts, and of section and modules names.

* [Documentation](img/keyword-completion-doc.png) for (most) auto-completion entries, with excerpts
  from the manual shown directly in Emacs.

* Interactive [proof script outline](img/outline.png) and [in-buffer folding](img/folding.png)

Advanced features (requires a patched version of `coqtop`):

* Auto-completion of all known [theorem and symbol names](img/symbol-completion-doc.png), with
  [type annotations](img/symbol-completion.png).

## Screenshots

### Autocompletion of tactics with documentation

<img src="img/tactic-completion-doc.png" alt="Autocompletion of tactics with documentation" />

### Autocompletion of commands with documentation

<img src="img/keyword-completion-doc.png" alt="Autocompletion of commands with documentation" />

### Auto insertion of Proof-General's templates

<img src="img/lemma-completion.png" alt="Auto insertion of Proof-General's templates" />

### Fuzzy autocompletion of module names

<img src="img/modules-completion.png" alt="Fuzzy autocompletion of module names" />

### Auto-completion of identifiers

<img src="img/identifiers-completion.png" alt="Auto-completion of identifiers" />

### Outline and folding

<img src="img/outline.png" alt="Outline" />
<img src="img/folding.png" alt="Folding" />

### Unicode math symbols

<img src="img/math-completion.png" alt="Unicode math symbols" />

### Autocompletion of symbol names (w/ patched `coqtop`, see notes)

<img src="img/symbol-completion.png" alt="Autocompletion of symbol names" />

(notice the help string in the mini-buffer)

<img src="img/symbol-completion-doc.png" alt="Autocompletion of symbol names with type annotations" />

## Setup

Note: You need a version of Emacs >= 24 for this to work properly. You can check which version you are running with <kbd>M-x emacs-version RET</kbd>

### `Coq`

```bash
sudo apt-get install coq
```

### `Proof-General`

```bash
sudo apt-get install proof-general
```

(or [from source](http://proofgeneral.inf.ed.ac.uk/releases/ProofGeneral-4.2.tgz))

### `company-coq`

```elisp
M-x package-install RET company-coq RET
```

<small>
Note that `company-coq` is on [MELPA](http://melpa.org/#/getting-started). If you don't have it, add the following to your `.emacs` and reload it before running the commands above:

```elisp
(require 'package)
(add-to-list 'package-archives '("melpa" . "http://melpa.org/packages/") t)
(package-initialize)
```
</small>

Compiling the dependencies of `company-coq` will produce a few warnings. That's ok.

## Configuration

Add the following to your `.emacs`

```elisp
(package-initialize)

;; Open .v files with Proof-General's coq-mode
(require 'proof-site)

;; Load company-coq when opening Coq files
(add-hook 'coq-mode-hook #'company-coq-initialize)
```

## Quick start guide

`company-coq` should be pretty transparent. Completion windows will pop up when `company-coq` has suggestions to make. By default, this would be when you start writing a tactic name or a command. You can also launch manual completion by using <kbd>C-RET</kbd> (or whatever was originally assigned to `proof-script-complete` in Coq mode).

Once auto-completion has started, the following key bindings are available:

* <kbd>RET</kbd> selects a completion
* <kbd>C-g</kbd> interrupts completion.
* <kbd>C-h</kbd> and <kbd>&lt;f1></kbd> display documentation for the currently highlighted keyword or identifier.
* <kbd>C-M-v</kbd> scrolls down in the documentation window.
* <kbd>C-w</kbd> opens the relevant section of the documentation, scrolling to the part about the currently highlighted keyword or identifier. Using <kbd>C-w</kbd> allows you scroll up (<kbd>C-M-S-v</kbd>) in the documentation window to see more context.

You can customize these keybindings by editing `company-active-map`.

Selecting a completion generally often a snippet with holes at the current point (`company-coq` uses `yasnippet` as the snippet backend). You can move between holes by using <kbd>&lt;tab></kbd> and <kbd>S-&lt;tab></kbd>.

Loading `company-coq` also binds the following keys:

* <kbd>C-c C-/</kbd> folds the current code block, or all blocs in the file if repeated.
* <kbd>C-c C-\\</kbd> unfolds the current code block, or all blocs in the file if repeated.
* <kbd>C-c C-,</kbd> opens an outline of the code in a separate buffer (using `occur`).

## Advanced topics

### Autocompleting symbols

The procedure above will give you auto-completion and documentation for tactics, commands, and theorems that you define locally, but not for theorem names and symbols defined in the libraries you load. To get the latter, add the following to your `.emacs`, before `(company-coq-initialize)`:

```elisp
(setq company-coq-autocomplete-symbols-dynamic t)
```

This feature won't work well unless you build and use a patched coq REPL. [This patch](https://github.com/cpitclaudel/company-coq/blob/master/SearchMinimal.patch) should work well for 8.4pl2 and pl3; [this one](https://github.com/cpitclaudel/company-coq/blob/master/SearchMinimal-trunk.patch) should work on 8.5 and trunk.

### Disabling some modules

Modules, context and symbols auto-completion can be turned off using the following lines

```elisp
(setq company-coq-autocomplete-modules nil)
(setq company-coq-autocomplete-context nil)
(setq company-coq-autocomplete-symbols nil)
```

### Unloading `company-coq`

`M-x unload-feature RET company-coq RET` should work fine.

### Installing from source

#### `company-coq`

```bash
mkdir -p ~/.emacs.d/lisp/
git clone https://github.com/cpitclaudel/company-coq.git ~/.emacs.d/lisp/company-coq
```

#### Dependencies

```elisp
M-x package-refresh-contents RET
M-x package-install RET company RET
M-x package-install RET company-math RET
M-x package-install RET yasnippet RET
```

### Configuration

```elisp
(add-to-list 'load-path "~/.emacs.d/lisp/ProofGeneral/generic/")
(add-to-list 'load-path "~/.emacs.d/lisp/company-coq/")
(require 'company-coq)
```
